31 December 1986 A Temperament Of A Peaceful Personality
Mahalakshmi Puja
Sangli (India)
Sahaja Yoga is spreading slowly in Sangli district.
But the thing that spreads
slowly gets established firmly.
And any live process
takes place slowly.
Hence we should not expect that
it will suddenly grow on large scale.
If we need to produce plastic flowers
then a machine is sufficient for that.
But to create live
flowers, it takes time.
It needs to be cultivated,
effort has to be taken.
Many people still do not have
any idea about Sahaja Yoga.
And those who know
have only misconceptions.
We have many cults, sects which
are already active since long time.
But we have not benefitted
from these cults and sects.
“We have been going to Pandhari
(Pandharpur) for so many days,
have been worshipping Tuljapur’s Bhavani
for so many days,
have been visiting
Mahalakshmi temple at Kolhapur.
We did everything
that is possible.
Performed fasts and
religious ceremonies.
Despite doing all this Mataji, we did
not get anything.”
On the top of it, after
growing up your children
will ask you; you have spent so much time,
spent money, took efforts and
at end you did not gain anything.
Means there is no God.
If you wish to go to Sangli then
take a road leading to Sangli.
If you take opposite route
then you will not reach Sangli.
So after so many years,
you did not reach Sangli.
It means that you were walking
on the wrong road,
and are still wandering on the same road.
We have not
yet found the way.
Everyone should have this
prudent thought
Because we have not yet found the way,
and we have not achieved anything.
So we must think at least once, that something
has gone wrong,
first understand Sahaja Yoga
and then explain it to people.
While convincing people regarding this,
one thing is very essential,
means while speaking to
people with whom you connect,
you should speak in their
language to convince them.
If you use your language,
they will not follow.
If we try to explain the chakras
directly, they will not understand.
But if you tell, we have Kundalini power within us about which Dnyaneshwar has talked.
You respectfully call him as
“Mauli”(mother)
and take out religious processions and
dindis(parades) in his name
But you must first read
what has been written by him.
Now why has it been told to you that
you should not read the sixth chapter?
Because if you read that,
these people who
are leading you to the wrong path,
people who are looting
you, will not benefit.
Hence this has been written.
If you tell people that whatever is written
in the sixth chapter is what we give you,
then they will understand.
Hence whatever first
we need to tell people,
it should be explained in
their language, in their way.
Secondly, as we have the guidance of
Namdeo, Tukram, Gora Kumbhar, Janabai,
Muktabai, Dnyaneshwar and Ramdas
after reading their books we should examine what all
is written in the poetic verses written in those books.
Means what they have written about the
people engrossed in the misconceptions and
who fast and perform
religious ceremonies.
Dnyaneshwar himself has clearly written in
his book “Amrutanubhav”
that after reading his book, one should simply
contemplate and think – what this is all about
not merely continue reading.
You will be surprised that
he has stipulated in it more clearly
than what I am emphasizing.
Ramdas Swamy and Tukaram
have sweared at such people severely.
Still these vagabonds
misguiding others.
Somebody was talking to me the other day
Mataji, you said not to apply bukka
(Black powder) on the forehead. Why is that?
Where we apply bukka is
actually agnya chakra’s place.
The sun is positioned
on agnya chakra.
Do we apply black to the sun?
But even from Sahaja
Yoga’s perspective we
should ask them a
simple question, that the
people who advise you to apply bukka, means
these priests sitting at Pandharpur
They are aptly called Badwe (The
beaters), they actually beat people.
These Badwes never wear bukka.
No bhatji (priest) applies
black on his forehead.
Then why should you apply black?
If you ask them such pertinent questions,
then it will dawn in their heads and if
tomorrow his son gets waylaid
then you are responsible for that.
Because by mechanically chanting
God’s name you have not achieved anything.
You have not benefitted from it.
This has to be
clearly told to them.
Only after telling them
clearly, they will realize.
If even one out of hundred comes to his
senses, if even one person comes to his
senses then we must think
that a lot has been gained.
But if anyone becomes stubborn, anyone
becomes obstinate
then there is no need to
tell him about Sahaja Yoga.
Christ has clearly mentioned that
one should not pour pearls
in front of pigs.
They do not understand anything
then why to pour pearls in front of them?
These are pearls.
These are pearls from life.
You will not understand.
It should be in your fate.
It is not in your luck.
It seems to have dozed off.
Or it is destroyed somewhere.
So this needs fortune/luck.
In addition, it needs
people who are full of valor.
In the beginning there
are lots of on lookers.
I see, lots of onlookers
in the program.
Hence in the program on the
first day, there is a lot of rush.
Overflowing crowd.
On the second day there
will be half the number.
The reason is that
The onlookers have dropped out.
Good riddance.
Otherwise it is a headache.
Now if there are many onlookers,
they will not become Sahaja Yogis.
But will keep on watching.
When the onlookers get dropped
then half the crowd remains.
In that half, only the brave and valiant …
it’s not for any Tom Dick and Harry
very clearly mentioned  it's not
the work of any lay person.
Means one should
have the caliber for this.
In Marathi language, very apt
descriptions are available for everything.
And For Sahaja Yoga, it is a very
elegant language and it is so useful.
If you are proficient in Marathi
and if you need to speak with
Marathi people
then you must be able to
convince them of Sahaja Yoga.
You should be able to
convince them logically.
It needs people with caliber.
You don’t have the
caliber so good bye. Go.
The word is “jativant” (true born)
and It is said about the Devi (Goddess) “ya devi sarvabhuteshu jatirupen sansthita”
(The deity (devi) who is the main reason for creation of all the living beings)
You are created with a distinct capability.
If you do not have the natural ability to
receive it, how can I bestow it upon you?
Jaat does not mean
Bramhan or shudra.
Jaat means our inner tendency which
is called as aptitude.
It is a tendency.
What is that aptitude?
A person’s Jaat (class) is
dependent on his aptitude.
And everything is written
in Devi’s description.
Complete description is there.
You will find each and every
description given exactly in Sahaja Yoga.
“Shobhana sulabha gati,
Shobhana sulabha gati, sulabha gati.”
It has a pace that is easy.
Means that which gets
done easily and is elegant.
In this, you need not shout or yell,
don’t have to behave in a tipsy
manner in a dindi (procession),
don’t have to behave like crazy.
Absolutely nothing.
“Shobhana sulabha gati”.
Many people are
just being volatile.
You can see that some people’s meditation
is very odd
that one feels like running away
they shout, scream,
tear their clothes
such is their way of mediation.
“Shobhana sulabha gati”
Is the description for Devi.
She gives you
“Shobhana sulabha gati”.
If this is the description of Devi,
and if it happens accordingly,
then why do you
drag your feet to go there?
Why to take so much trouble?
But it does not mean that those who were
pundarikasksha (lotuseyed),
the saints that have been,
I am not denying them or
talking derogatory about them.
Or for that matter even
Shrikrishna is there.
And his place is at
Pandharpur, no doubt about it.
Pandhari is real.
But the charlatans sitting there,
they are present at each holy place.
But that does not mean that Pandhari
is false and these people are true.
If we fix a stone in gold, the stone does
not turn into diamond
and we fix stone in gold, the
gold does not turn into brass.
Hence even if both the things are true,
that one is based on truth
and the other on falsity,
and even if they are paired forcibly,
still, using the competence to differentiate
between water and milk, we must show them that
these two things are different.
After showing this they will
understand,” Oh my God. What is this?"
They are speaking
like saint Tukaram.
Their talk is very
enlightening”.
Similarly to have saptah (sermons for
entire week), this and that
these things are
of a social nature here.
To arrange saptah
has a social aspect.
First the saptah is done, then
meals, then sitting without purpose.
On this, Kabir has said- “Padhi padhi pandit murakh bhaye” (Just reading without understanding makes a learned person an idiot).
They just keep on reading.
“kahe nanak bin aapachi ne, mita na bhram
ki kayi”,
keep on chanting this for one’s amusement and learn it by heart as well. (Nanak says – to
know yourself you need to remove the shroud of illusion of worldly love and attractions )
Then there is one parrot.
His master trained him to say
‘raghupati raghav rajaram’
He learnt.
After he started parroting, listening to
him, another parrot started saying the same thing.
Means the first parrot
is the guru of the second one.
The number of gurus thus increased
creating a lineage of jabberers.
Tell them that
if you wish to have the truth, you need to
come out of this jabbering.
Thus Marathi has so much of humor also
hence I feel this language has been created
for Sahaja Yoga only.
Every word has so much subtlety,
so you can be confident and
use this language fully.
As there is a saying here – ‘ati shahane tyache bail rikame’
(people who show over intelligence are usually losers).
To begin with they are pseudo wise,
on the top of it, they are over smart.
You cannot explain
this in any language.
The next level of being pseudo wise
is being an unbridled brash individual.
Such individuals incur losses.
This cannot be explained
in any other language.
This can be expressed
only in our Marathi Language.
That’s why one should utilize
this language completely.
Even if you are absorbed in the
contemplation of Bramha (The Absolute)
and you have achieved Bramha,
you are practicing it with dedication
and it is flowing through you,
and similarly with pure consciousness flowing,
if everybody wishes to understand the Bramha,
still to become a guru
one should know whatever is the
traditional knowledge in this world.
And one should be thoroughly
conversant with Ved Shastra.
This does not mean
having read Vedas.
But one should have the knowledge, after examining
the summary of what other Sadhus and saints have said.
There is no need to do some special
reading or do some special deed.
Only need to cultivate a little
hobby of reading books daily.
Everyone will understand
after doing the reading.
Because once you become a Sahaja Yogi,
whatever he may be, he understands everything.
Thus in this way, one can
position the second point.
The third point is that people who
are over smart, they will preach you.
When they start saying ‘Tuka mhane aise’
(Saint Tukaram Says thus),
you ask them ‘Tuka Mahne Kaise’ (what does
Tukaram say?), this should have a response.
And another thing is when they say ‘Tuka
mhane aise’, one should know the context here.
They just keep on blabbering something.
All the sayings of
Tukaram are over.
Now they will append something of their own
in Tuka’s name like
‘Tuka says that apply bukka(black powder applied on agya)’. Excellent, is that so?
Was there bukka (black
powder) available in those days?
They just attribute such things to Tukaram.
This is the third practice in their name.
That you must apply bukka
though the word bukka is not
mentioned in any of their verses.
Even if the word, Varkari (person on pilgrimage) is not
mentioned, they will say ‘Tuka says become a Varkari’.
This way, force people in
his name and speak lies.
Tomorrow they will
say, ‘Mataji says….
Not only my name,
one could use any name.
If we want to use, then we can use anybody’s
name such as Mataji says apply bukka.
Now recently someone attributed to me that
‘Mataji says keep a fast, should not eat’.
This is great.
Thus different types of repeated aggressive
onslaughts may come on you;
one should be
able to face those.
This fight is for a short time.
Once this fight gets over,
these people will be trounced.
Totally vanquished.
This is not a fight with Aurangjeb(King from India),
It is fight against ignorance.
The moment the light of knowledge enters it,
these people will get vanquished.
Because it is in their interest.
We are telling you
this in your interest.
You should tell them that we are
telling you things that will benefit you.
This will enlighten their minds
and everything will be alright.
My today’s speech should be taped and then
sent after transcribing it properly
because it will be useful for everybody.
I have been telling them, how they
have to face the other people around.
You have the same problems a little more
sophisticated,
and here the problems
are not so sophisticated
because we don’t have organized religions.
Thank God for that also,
but because you have organized religions
you have to face them in an organized way.
For example, now here we have a custom that
all the people who have to go to Vitthal,
to see Vitthala in Pandharpur have to wear
a black spot,
just the opposite of what it should be
but the people who are in
charge, the priests, never wear black.
You are misguided.
But the religions across the oceans have
become so organized, and are so solid,
absolutely solidified.
That’s gone into their brain so much, that
if they have to give,
give up those ideas
which are absolutely gross.
they think that that they
will have to give up God.
They are so much identified.
Church is identified with God.
Church has become God
and God has become Church.
Actually in Sanskrit language church,
‘churchit’ means, which is worshipped, worship.
But here at least in this country, thank
God we don’t have such an organized religion
I mean an ordinary person can go
and challenge Shankaracharya,
and can tell him off.
But not in that country.
You will have to just shoot
him down or something like that.
There is no other way out.
You cannot go and talk to
them and argue with them.
So best thing would be to approach such
people
who have been, eh, opposing those things
but they may be the other kind,
another blind who are in some ways, or
some things as who are denouncing God.
Because if they denounce the
Church they also denounce God.
So you should find out such people
who are
understanding that there is God
but there is no church.
I think there is a big
population of that kind.
While talking to them you
have to know Bible very well.
If you have to be a real Guru
you must know Bible
because you cannot talk
to them without it.
And also other religions in which there
is a complete explanation of Sahaja Yoga.
If you know Bible how far it is
closer to Sahaja Yoga you can talk to them.
If you know about Christ very
well then you can talk to them.
So you can say chapter
this and this and this.
You should say chapter
this and this, this and this.
As soon as they say chapter this one
and this one, your open argument shows.
So you must neutralize their arguments by
your own knowledge which is enlightened.
The best one you can say is that,
that now since Christ departed from
this Earth you have been following them
and you are aware what have you gained?
Nothing.
Now in the Bible it is described that He
is going to send a counsellor,
a comforter and a redeemer, what about that?
Why don’t you seek for that?
The arguments should not be
bombastic or aggressive but peaceful.
In between, you must keep quiet for a
while, listen to the person
and then tell them, I
am sure it will work out.
As you know some of you must have
asked me questions also
and I must have answered
them very well.
But peacefully, joyfully
because they can not disturb you.
You have to disturb them and their
fossilized ideas,
which are to be defroze
and for that you have
to have a temperament,
a temperament of a peaceful personality.
I have told in general to you but
quite intensely to these people.
I told here to make a proper tape out of
that
and I should translate it and put it in the
book that I am writing for the Sahaja Yogis.
I am supposed to be writing.
So now we are looking forward
to going to Ganapatipule after this puja.
I would request you to go with devotion
and with complete surrendering
that you have to achieve something.
Forget the past,
forget the past.
You have to forget the past.
It is very important that you
forget the past and then go there.
Whatever has happened, has happened
in your life,
is nothing important,
nothing can curb you down.
You are like a new budding flower and
you have every right to be a fruit
and no energy which is negative or so called
over positive can subdue or destroy you.
Go with that idea, that
I am the Spirit
and I have nothing to fear.
May God bless you all!